A person with Costochondritis has an avoid repetitive misuse of muscles prevention because strenuous exercises put too much pressure on muscles in the inflamed area. Avoidance of activities that may strain or cause trauma to the rib cage is recommended to prevent the occurrence of costochondritis.
A person with Costochondritis has an fix improper posture prevention because bad posture puts stress on joints and tissues, causing joint stiffness, weakened muscles, and inflammation that is so common in Costochondritis.
A person with rheumatoid has an don't smoke prevention because tobacco smoke causes your body to release cytokines linked to inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis.
A person with rheumatoid has a/an take care of gums prevention because  bacteria responsible for gum disease can lead to earlier onset, faster progression and greater severity of RA, including increased damage to bone and cartilage
A person with thyroid cancer has an thyroid surgery prevention because prophylactic surgery is sometimes chosen by people who know they are at high risk for developing cancer. Patients exposed to high radiation as a child, a known cause of thyroid cancer, may decide to have preventive surgery as a adult.
A person with thyroid cancer has an medication prevention because thyroid hormone medication slows down the growth of any remaining differentiated cancer cells
A person with depression has a stress management prevention because Chronic stressful life situations can increase the risk of developing depression if the stress isn't managed well
A person with depression has an family and friends prevention because patients with high levels of friend and family support had lower depression symptoms and lower cortisol and C-reactive protein levels.
A person with depression has a/an early treatment prevention because early treatment is critical for rapid intervention, which can potentially reduce the escalation of the disorder
A person with gout has an lose weight prevention because losing weight can lower uric acid levels in your body and significantly reduce the chance of gout attacks.
A person with ibs has a stress management prevention because stress triggers chemicals in the brain that turn on pain signals in your gut that may cause your colon to spasm.
A person with diabetes has a regular exercise prevention because exercise helps manage prediabetes and type 2 diabetes by lowering blood glucose levels and improving insulin sensitivity throughout the body
A person with Prostatitis has an healthy diet prevention because caffeine, alcohol, fatty and hot, spicy foods cause an "allergic-like" reaction leading to inflammation of the prostate and the urethra
A person with Gastroparesis has a healthy diet prevention because people with gastroparesis should avoid eating high-fiber, high-fat foods, as they take longer to digest. So, it's essential that, diet which contain the nutrients your body needs rather than empty calories can help prevent gastroparesis.
A person with Anemia has an healthy diet prevention because eating a well balanced diet helps your body obtain the vitamins and minerals it is missing with anemia in a more helpful way than supplements.
A person with bipolar has an avoid drugs and alcohol prevention because drugs and alcohol can increase the mania severity, which many who suffer from bipolar find extremely pleasurable
A person with covid19 has an booster dose prevention because the booster shot protects against concerns that the effectiveness of the vaccine decreases over time and may not protect against a new strain.
A person with Alzheimers has an engage in activity prevention because engaging in activity will Increase nerve connections in the brain or release hormones that increase nerve cell creation and this may help preserve nerve cells in the brain and mental function
A person with Fibromyalgia has an meditation and yoga prevention because yoga is good, gentle way to stretch your body and loosen up tight muscles and joints. It also helps with balance and strength, and, as you become more advanced, it can provide you with a cardiovascular workout as well
A person with Ankylosing Spondylitis has an healthy diet prevention because while diet alone can't cure or treat ankylosing spondylitis, eliminating foods that increase inflammation, like processed foods and saturated fat, and eating foods that help lower inflammation may help you better manage symptoms like joint pain and stiffness
A person with insomnia has a/an meditation and yoga prevention because meditation increases the natural melatonin levels to help with more restful sleep.
A person with bipolar has a/an medication prevention because people who skip maintenance treatment are at high risk of a relapse of symptoms or having minor mood changes turn into full-blown mania or depression
A person with LymeDisease has a remove ticks quickly prevention as it takes some time for the Lyme disease-causing bacteria to move from the tick to the host.
A person with acne has a stress management prevention because stress causes acne by releasing the hormone cortisol, which may make your skin more oily. To prevent stress acne, wash your face regularly, exercise, and eat healthy foods.
A person with Crohns Disease has an regular exercise prevention because exercise helps reduce stress in the body that cause flare ups and exercise releases  myokines  which help with inflammation.
A person with dementia has a treat health conditions prevention because the aims of treatment for people with dementia are to reduce any symptoms, maintain function and so promote independence. Medicines for dementia are used to help with symptoms that affect thinking and memory, as well as symptoms that affect mood and behaviour.
A person with hpv has an HPV vaccine prevention because the HPV vaccine targets the HPV types that most commonly cause cervical and other forms of cancer as well as genital warts.