oral medications like Sildenafil (Viagra), vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn), tadalafil (Cialis) and avanafil (Stendra) reverse erectile dysfunction by enhancing the effects of nitric oxide, a natural chemical your body produces that relaxes muscles in the penis
Cystic fibrosis is caused by mutations in the gene that produces the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein
diets that are rich in antioxidants and provide adequate amounts of nutrients such as vitamin B12 can help lead to reduced symptoms
You might be more likely to get MS if you have another autoimmune condition like inflammatory bowel disease, thyroid disease etc
stress weakens the body and in a weakened state, you're more vulnerable to fibromyalgia's symptoms, such as chronic pain, fatigue, and depression
studies show that men who were more physically active were less likely to suffer from prostatitis and BPH
MS flare is caused by inflammation in the nerves and myelin, the sheath of tissue around the nerves and corticosteroids help relieve MS flare because they reduce the nerve inflammation
environment should help them know where they are and help them find where they want to go.
adults with ADHD also had elevated levels of metabolic disorders, being almost twice as likely to have high blood pressure
using oily or irritating personal care products clog your pores causing acne.
about 81% of deaths from the disease in the U.S. have been in people ages 65 and older, with the risk of dangerous symptoms increasing with age, and those ages 85 and older at the highest risk of serious symptoms from covid19.
people exposed to stressful events, especially in childhood, tend to have more symptoms of IBS
drugs including Benzodiazepine sedatives such as triazolam (Halcion), estazolam, lorazepam (Ativan), temazepam (Restoril), flurazepam, and quazepam (Doral) and non-benzodiazepine sedatives such as zolpidem (Ambien, Intermezzo), eszopiclone (Lunesta), and zaleplon (Sonata) can help induce sleep
foods naturally rich in magnesium may, therefore, help a person to feel calmer
women who are pregnant or were recently pregnant are at increased risk of severe illness with COVID-19
body weight puts increased pressure on the sciatic nerve below the hips making it more likely for the sciatic nerve to become pinched resulting in sciatica.
people who have experienced a previous trauma, such as a rape, car accident, disaster, or act of violence, are more susceptible to PTSD
chiropractic type of massage is an intense way of relieving the sciatica pain. It can induce deep muscles relaxation and release of endorphins that act as natural painkillers.
most common medications used for treating the depression and anxiety associated with PTSD belong to a class of antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs which work by raising levels of the brain chemical serotonin, which regulates mood, appetite, and sleep
too much screen time primarily impacts our ability to focus. By limiting screen use to a maximum of one hour a day of high-quality programming can help prevent adhd.
a diet consistently low in iron, vitamin B-12, folate and copper increases your risk of anemia
by getting enough sleep, fatigue is eliminated, stress levels are reduced, blood is flowing properly and your skin can repair at a faster rate and help reduce factors that cause acne
medications help control stabilising the electrical activity of the brain and reduce or avoid siezures.
smoking increases the risk of vascular problems, like strokes or smaller bleeds in the brain, which are dementia risk factors.
individuals who were exposed to sedentary behavior had a 30% higher risk of experiencing dementia
this condition usually last for longer than 5 years, so following response to acute treatment, long‐term continuation and maintenance therapy is required to protect patients from relapse or recurrence of symptoms.
damage due to buildup in the arteries can slow blood flow to the brain and over time cause damage to brain cells increasing the chance for dementia.
sleep disruption aggravate both GI (such as abdominal pain) and non-GI symptoms (such as joint pain and headaches) of IBS.
researches find that any kind of exercise is associated with a decreased risk of developing dementia and aerobic exercise in particular may help slow shrinkage in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that deals with memory
as a result of insulin resistance, the body constantly attempts to regulate blood glucose levels, which affects the body's fight or flight response. Problems with glucose synthesis can cause you to feel tired yet lead to difficulty falling asleep, complicating PCOS and sleep concerns.
studies have shown that smokers get more autoimmune conditions, and MS is an autoimmune condition
stress is more likely to exacerbate the symptoms of MS and bring about a flare or relapse
for some people with CF, other organs may need to be transplanted (including the liver or the pancreas) because of the damage the condition can inflict on the whole of the body. Transplantation reduce the risk of infection spreading from the CF lung to the new lung.
diet with high fiber and complex carbohydrates may help reduce blood glucose (sugar) spikes and lessen POTS symptoms.
the fear of being abandoned often causes people with BPD to form unhealthy attachments, cut off loved ones, and make frantic attempts to hold onto relationships. These overly intense or erratic behaviors, in turn, often push loved ones away.
dystonia and other types of abnormal involuntary movements are commonly associated with both ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes
it is triggered by airborne substances, such as pollen, mold spores, cockroach waste, or particles of skin and dried saliva shed by pets (pet dander)
recent prevalence study shows MS is three times more common in women than in men
patients with peripheral nerve damage may be at an increased risk of developing the condition
having a first-degree family member (mother, daughter, aunt) with a thyroid problem is an increased risk factor for the disorder, and the more family members that have thyroid disease, the greater the likelihood that there is a hereditary root.
children who endured abuse or trauma or witnessed traumatic events are at higher risk of developing an anxiety disorder at some point in life and adults who experience a traumatic event also can develop anxiety disorders
abandonment in childhood or adolescence, disrupted family life and poor communication in the family also causes BPD
enhancing the diet with foods rich in antioxidants may help ease the symptoms of anxiety
drugs such as allopurinol and febuxostat help limit the amount of uric acid your body makes
smoking actually deteriorates the discs in your spine over time. The nicotine in tobacco can damage spinal tissue, weaken bones, and speed the wearing down of vertebral disks.
POTS often starts after experiencing a trauma
if you don't get enough sleep, your brain won't have enough time to drain away beta amyloid and other substances. When we sleep our brain flushes these amyloid-betas, preventing them from forming into plaque and damaging our neurons and can help prevent dementia.
saline can wash away allergens, mucus, and other debris, and help to moisten the mucous membranes.
medications like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and clomipramine can improve chemical signals within the brain to reduce OCD symptoms
medications help the body fight off harmful viruses. The drugs can ease symptoms and shorten the length of a viral infection and stops the herpes virus growing and spreading.
diets high in saturated and trans fats have been shown to increase cognitive decline and the risk of worsening dementia
prolonged and repeated traumas, particularly in early life, promote a chronic inability to modulate emotions, that can result in behavioral patterns characteristic of BPD, such as unstable intense relationships, distorted self-image, extreme emotions and impulsiveness.
diabetes causes diabetic neuropathy, which leads to nerve damage
ADHD medications reverse a deficiency in the brain's neurotransmitter system, a deficiency that's at the root of the disorder. ADHD medicines improve attention by helping normal brain chemicals work better.
studies show that by the age of 40, almost 100% of people with Down syndrome who die have the changes in the brain associated with Alzheimer's disease
secondhand smoke (SHS) exposure can trigger asthma exacerbations
people with endometriosis experience menstrual pain when the tissue meant to line the uterus becomes trapped outside of it, sticking to the ovaries and resulting in cysts called endometriomas.
research data suggest that Lyme disease is a hazard of outdoor work and that increased recognition of this fact will be necessary to prevent Lyme
surgery may be used to treat moderate to severe cervical dysplasia by removing abnormal cells on the cervix.
the changes in barometric pressure that occur when flying can be harmful to the sinuses
people with a family history of PTSD and/or depression tend to be more susceptible to PTSD
African pygeum ( Prunus africana) helps reduce urinary symptoms of BPH and both bacterial and nonbacterial prostatitis in men with mild-to-moderate urinary symptoms.
sleep is a powerful stress reducer and following a regular sleep routine calms and restores the body, improves concentration, regulates mood, and sharpens judgment and decision-making.
by closely monitoring patients, helping them breathe, delivering intravenous fluids, keeping their fever down and treating cough, we can hopefully prevent adverse events, such as chronic shortness of breath, or worse, death in severe cases
the bacteria from the mouth or vagina can inflame the penis so it's important to keep it clean.
stress can cause inflammation in the brain, making the brain more susceptible to health problems like dementia.
therapy aims to help discover skills and improve coping strategies to better respond to reminders and emotions associated with the traumatic event
decongestants help reduce inflammation and swelling that cause sinus congestion by narrowing blood vessels and painrelievers like acetaminophen or ibuprofen relieves the pain caused by pressure buildup in the sinus cavities.
smoking affects patients with Crohn's disease by accelerating disease onset, progression and severity
regular aerobic exercise can increase strength and balance, improve bowel and bladder control, and decrease spasticity
Nicotine causes blood vessels to constrict. Constriction of blood vessels in certain parts of the brain, and in the meninges (the protective tissues that cover the brain), leads to altered brain activity associated with migraine symptoms.
it increases the amount of fluid in your body, making it easier for your blood to get to your head to help you feel less dizzy.
severe head injuries may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease and sustaining a head injury for those above 55 years age, may also increase the risk
weight loss can restore the normal function of the ovaries and result in normal hormone production, in turn lead to improvements in symptoms of PCOS, such as excess facial or body hair growth, acne, scalp hair loss and menstrual regularity
herbal remedies such as chamomile, ginger, licorice and other natural remedies helps reduce symptoms like heartburn and works as a digestive aid
women are four times more likely to get CFS than men
when you travel across more than two time zones by plane, your body's "internal clock" (or circadian rhythm) needs time to adjust to the new sleep and wake cycles at your destination.
healthy diet is important for long-term health of the nervous system as well as helps with constipation and bloating, and experience perfect daily bowel movements
exercise helps people to stay fit and healthy, help to reduce the number of seizures and feel more in control of their health
certain medicines may delay gastric emptying or affect motility resulting in symptoms that are similar to those of gastroparesis.
black-legged or deer ticks cause lyme disease and if you can't identify a bite it's harder to diagnose.
it relaxes the muscle in the prostate, which helps ease the constriction of the bladder neck and urethra, increasing blood circulation in the pelvic area.
an imbalance of the brain chemicals or neurotransmitters (dopamine, glutamate and serotonin) cause schizophrenia
the use of drugs and alcohol will intensify reckless and risk-taking behavior and exposing people to dangerous situations where they can be re-traumatized
consuming all these can cause complications in the developing fetus and the newborn. Pregnant women are advised to abstain from drinking any alcohol or cigarette smoking that can help prevent adhd.
hospitals can be the best place for people with schizophrenia to learn to live with their illness. A hospital can help the patient get the full picture of the symptoms and learn how to treat them as they are observing the patient all the time
dementia behavior is often worse at night and establishing going to bed rituals that are calming and away from the noise of television, meal cleanup and active family members helps
alcohol can increase the risk of gout, and the risk increases as the intake goes up
traumatic brain injury is linked to an increase of Parkinson's and the risk is higher with more severe or repeated injuries, such as a blow to the head with loss of consciousness and hospitalization, resulting in Parkinson's which is a loss of brain nerve cells.
medicines helps the muscles in the wall of your stomach work better and control nausea and vomiting and reduce pain
medications, called alpha-blockers, help relax the bladder neck and the muscle fibers where your prostate joins your bladder
studies show that people who are less physically active are more likely to be hospitalised and die with COVID-19
it can aggravate depression
any physical activity can reduce narcolepsy symptoms, regular exercise is particularly beneficial
increased androgens in the early gonadotropin-independent stage stimulate the formation of primordial follicles and increase the number of small antral follicles
surgery provides lasting relief from excessive sweating by stopping the nerve signals that the body sends to the sweat glands
if a family member has panic disorder or generalized social phobia, that you are much more likely to actually have those corresponding conditions.
the bodies ability to regulate sugar gets worse over time so medication helps keep your blood sugar level as normal as possible to prevent more health problems
traumatic life events, such as hardship, unstable relationships or conflicts, result in feelings of abandonment leading to an inner fight between survival and psychological death causing borderline personality disorder.
stress may cause levels of certain hormones to shift, which in turn results in prostate enlargement.
excess weight around the chest and abdomen might constrict the lungs and make it harder to breathe
a possible abrupt withdrawal of caffeine in a later stage is a potent trigger for migraine attacks
POTS can run in families
alcohol raises estrogen levels, which could lead to more painful endometrial symptoms.
you are more likely to get Lyme disease if you live or spend time in grassy and heavily wooded areas where ticks carrying Lyme disease thrive. Children who spend a lot of time outdoors in these regions are especially at risk.
of changes in sleep patterns and health, insomnia increases with age. Older adults often have difficulty of falling asleep or experience mid-sleep awakening, and their sleep efficiencies become reduced compared with those of younger adults.
weight gain is associated with increased levels of uric acid in the bloodstream. Gout occurs when uric acid is not properly excreted from the body, so it crystallizes and settles in joints.
studies reveal that men who slept longer and with fewer interruption had increased levels of the sleep hormone melatonin in their urine and were 75% less likely to develop advanced prostate cancer
alcohol impairment could aggravate symptoms of ADHD such as impulsiveness and difficulty focusing.
the condition occurs more frequently in people younger than 50, with about twice as many women as men having irritable bowel syndrome which may be due to hormonal changes.
mucus thinning drugs, such as hypertonic saline, to help you cough up the mucus, which can improve lung function. Inhaled medications called bronchodilators that can help keep your airways open by relaxing the muscles around your bronchial tubes.
fruits, vegetables, whole grains, soy products and low-fat dairy products may help prevent gout attacks by lowering uric acid levels.
medical condition such as cystic fibrosis or an immune system disorder such as HIV/AID affects sinuses
girls diagnosed with ADHD show fewer hyperactive/impulsive symptoms and more inattentive symptoms when compared with boys with the disorder. Boys are three times more likely than girls to develop ADHD.
early diagnosis and treatment can help you reduce ocd symptoms and its effects on your life. Early treatment may help prevent OCD from worsening and disrupting activities and your daily routine.
air pollution may cause you to experience more breathing and sinus issues
people with diabetes, especially type 1 diabetes, often develop a condition called gastroparesis. This condition is characterized by delayed stomach emptying. The pressure within the stomach can increase, which in turn can result in reflux, making you more prone to develop GERD.
a critical Alzheimer's risk gene, APOE4, interacts with air particles to accelerate brain aging
those who are caffeine-free may find it takes them much less time to fall asleep. Avoiding caffeine increases the quantity and quality of your sleep.
relaxation techniques such as meditation, deep breathing, massage, or yoga can activate the body's relaxation response and ease symptoms of PTSD. Make your own health a priority by doing activities that help you recharge.
people simply sleep better when their bedroom is optimized for light and noise levels, temperature, and comfort
regular exercise can actually decrease inflammation by reducing inflammatory proteins, which improves how your airways respond to exercise
crohn's patients who had quit smoking for more than a year had 65% fewer pain flare-ups than continued smokers
these work by narrowing blood vessels to help reduce inflammation and swelling that cause sinus congestion
the use of loop diuretics, thiazide diuretics and thiazide-like diuretics are associated with an increased risk of gout
you can test for two genetic types DYT1 and DYT28 early on to get better treament.
yoga's postures and meditation aspects have been shown to reduce stress and it could be very helpful in treating migraine
drinking can alter the brain's chemical levels and heighten the symptoms of depression, which can have life-threatening implications.
when the digestive system contracts slowly, delaying transit time for products of digestion, resulting in hard, difficult to pass, infrequent stools (constipation).
a person's growth may be affected by not getting the full amount of sleep. That's because growth hormone is normally released during sleep. If someone consistently gets too little sleep (known as "sleep deprivation"), growth hormone is suppressed. Lack of sleep also can affect other hormones.
it helps your body respond better to insulin, lowering your risk for diabetes and other complications, reduce your cholesterol, increses endorphins that promote feelings of wellness and help you fall asleep quicker and have a better quality sleep
it is a combination of exercise, breathing techniques, diet and education that aims to help give patients a better quality of life and be able to have more control of their symptoms
moderate to vigorous exercise can increase sleep quality by reducing sleep onset or the time it takes to fall asleep and decrease the amount of time they lie awake in bed during the night
working the muscles beyond the pelvic floor may also help combat erectile dysfunction. Exercise delivers oxygen and nutrients to your tissues and helps your cardiovascular system work more efficiently.
most cases are reported from the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central states
friends and family can listen to them, not to blame them or put pressure on them to get better without the time and support they need, learn and avoid situations or conversations might trigger flashbacks and discuss with them how you can help if they become unwell or if a crisis happens
people with schizophrenia experience more positive outcomes if they have medications to manage depression or anxiety and a supportive partner, family member or friends involved in their care
cardiac rehabilitation aims to not only strengthen the heart and body but give back confidence to patients through a supportive and monitored exercise program
cigarette smoke irritates the airways and triggers asthma symptoms
regular checkups can help with the early identification and treatment of conditions that can potentially lead to ED
anxiety and stress are closely linked, and they are among the chief causes of insomnia
sedentary behavior tends to be associated with an elevated risk of insomnia
having at least one APOE e4 gene increases your risk of developing Alzheimer's disease two- to threefold
by turning on your air and keeping it on, reduces the amount of these irritants in the air and the AC unit eliminates these pesky asthma triggers by cooling the air to a temperature where they can't survive. It also pulls moisture from the air, keeping the allergens' moist breeding grounds at bay.
resective surgery, the most common epilepsy surgery, is the removal of a small portion of the brain in which the surgeon cuts out brain tissues in the area of the brain where seizures occur, usually the site of a tumor, brain injury or malformation
people with schizophrenia who abuse substances experience more cognitive impairment, more intense psychosis and higher rates of needing emergency services.
immunocompromised patients with respiratory virus infection are at risk of more severe infection and increased rates of bacterial and fungal superinfection
inadequate sleep can cause elevated blood pressure, a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease.
women are more likely to get fibromyalgia than men
compression of the lower limbs causes an increased blood return to the heart from the superficial veins in the legs.
initiation of systemic anticoagulation immediately after diagnosis is the first step in treatment for Paget schroetter
acupuncture can calm or quiet the nervous system and help slow down the pain signals to the brain
Smokers take longer to fall asleep and wake up more frequently, they sleep less than nonsmokers, and have a less deep sleep
steroids work by decreasing the production of inflammatory chemicals and reduce the sensitivity of your nerve fibers to pain. As a result, fewer pain signals are generated and you feel less pain
nose and sinuses produce a quart or two of mucus a day, it can quickly build up and create a breeding ground for germs that can cause a sinus infection
patients with primary insomnia had a higher risk of dementia incidence than those without insomnia.
onset of Multiple Sclerosis usually occurs around 20 and 40 years of age
being overweight increases the risk of developing gout. Any diet that produces rapid changes in weight raises the risk of gout like bacon, organ meats, and some types of seafood, are high in purines and cause uric acid levels to rise.
the high levels of loneliness observed among older adults can be explained by a higher risk of anxiety in late adulthood
stress can trigger asthma symptoms in people with a diagnosis. It may also contribute to the development of asthma and long-term stress is correlated with the new onset of asthma, particularly if it takes place during childhood or adolescence or someone has multiple sources of stress
working out and other forms of exercises can definitely ease symptoms of depression or anxiety and make the patient feel better
gas cookers give off nitrogen dioxide, and fine particles small enough to get into your lungs which can make your airways swollen and inflamed, so you're more at risk of asthma symptoms.
practicing yoga and meditation helps improve functional mobility, balance, improved balance, flexibility, and posture, participants experienced a boost in mood, better sleep quality and lower-limb strength of people with Parkinson's disease
the risk of developing multiple sclerosis is higher for siblings or children of a person with the condition than for the general population
prescription drugs such as sumatriptan (Imitrex, Tosymra)and rizatriptan (Maxalt, Maxalt-MLT) are used to treat migraine because they block pain pathways in the brain and they can relieve many symptoms of migraine
alternating heat and cold therapy can provide immediate relief of sciatic nerve pain. Ice can help reduce inflammation, while heat encourages blood flow to the painful area (which speeds healing) and also help ease painful muscle spasms that often accompany sciatica
underlying medical conditions, living in shared settings and barriers to healthcare can make it more difficult to do certain activities or interact with others, increasing the chance of getting covid19.
anemia is a deficiency of vitamins and minerals in the blood so you need to replace them with diet or supplements to be healthy.
an imbalance in brain chemicals makes you more sensitive to pain. The immune system attacks healthy tissue in your body, such as your joints. As a result, the joints become painful and swollen.
for early lyme disease, a short course of oral antibiotics, such as doxycycline or amoxicillin, cures the majority of cases and for more complicated cases, lyme disease can usually be successfully treated with three to four weeks of antibiotic therapy medication treatment because
susceptibility for developing PTSD that is hereditary in nature, with 30% of PTSD cases explained by genetics alone
several surgical options exist for the management of refractory gastroparesis including GES, LP, endoscopic POP, or enteral feeding tubes and surgical resection options like sleeve gastrectomy and subtotal or total gastrectomy are also available
irritants cause inflammation, making acne breakouts worse
if you do not have enough iron, your body cannot make hemoglobin, then you may develop anemia and one way of treating anemia is with oral iron supplements, including pills, capsules, drops, and extended-release tablets
drinking large amounts of alcohol can make it hard to get or keep an erection
weight loss is one of the best ways to beat GERD and the first step is to reduce your daily calorie intake. Reducing foods high in fat can help reduce calories while also decreasing the risk for heartburn
many people have worse IBS symptoms when they eat or drink certain foods or beverages, including wheat, dairy products, citrus fruits, beans, cabbage, milk and carbonated drinks
it has been estimated that nearly 30% of people with OCD have had a substance use disorder at some point in their lives
women have an increased asthma prevalence compared to men.
it helps the patient identify and replace thoughts and behaviors that cause or worsen sleep problems with habits that promote sound sleep
during physical activity, one will often breathe more quickly through your mouth, causing cold and dry air to travel to your lungs, irritating the airways
drinking more fluids helps thin the mucus which lets it drain from the sinuses more easily
having a good night's sleep helps our brains to recover from the day's events, so that we can function well the next day. For some people with epilepsy a lack of sleep can make seizures more likely to happen, for others having seizures at night can make them feel tired during the day
exercise stimulate the release of the natural painkiller endorphin, which can aid in reducing the intensity and frequency of migraine headache.
certain diseases such as cancer, HIV / AIDS , rheumatoid arthritis, kidney disease, Crohn's disease and other acute or chronic inflammatory diseases can interfere with the production of red blood cells
keeping patients actively engaged in everyday activities and cognitively challenging tasks is beneficial for both body and mind and, in some cases, it can even slow the progression of the disease. Activities play a significant part in dealing with challenging behaviors.
sunlight is the body's most efficient source for vitamin D, suggesting that exposure to sunlight may help protection from MS.
people who drink heavily are more likely to experience irritable bowel syndrome
people who have weakened immune systems are at greater risk of HPV infections
Lyme disease is most common in children 5 to 9 years old, and adults between 55 to 69 years old
studies reveal that men who reported severe stress at work or home were 1.2 and 1.5 times more likely to report prostatitis
nicotine disrupt sleep and reduce total sleep time and consuming alcohol prevents you from getting the deep sleep you need as alcohol use may lead to daytime fatigue and sleepiness.
hyperhidrosis, can also happen as a result of stress and anxiety.
obesity can increase the risk of getting MS, make the MS symptoms more severe and harder to deal with, trigger more frequent relapses and also accelerate the progression of MS towards increasing disability
alcohol and drugs change levels of serotonin and other neurotransmitters in the brain, which can worsen anxiety
a stressful or emotional life event might trigger a psychotic episode
people who smoked cigarettes or had smoked previously were 29 to 37 percent more likely to develop GERD than never-smokers
lack of activity leads to deconditioning of muscles
Benzodiazepines are sedatives that can help relax your muscles and calm your mind from anxiety.
exercise releases feel-good endorphins, and other natural brain chemicals that can enhance your sense of well-being. Engaging in exercise diverts you from the very thing you are anxious about.
treatments include medications and psychotherapy. ... and environmental factors can raise a person's risk for developing anxiety disorders
exercise expands blood volume and plasma volume and increase cardiac muscle mass and heart size. These in turn have been associated with improvement in symptoms, and therefore exercise training is often suggested as a therapy for POTS syndrome
of repeated trauma to the veins caused by stretch during muscular strain after vigorous activity.
79% of men presenting erectile disorders have BMI of 25 kg/m2 or greater
Vitamin B6 has been proven to improve brain function, nerve function and red cell production, Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid can help lower the levels of an amino acid in the blood that is often linked to dementia, Zinc is essential to healthy functioning of the body and brain and Phosphatidylserine is actually a naturally occurring lipid that is the primary component of the membranes surrounding nerve cells are used to treat alzheimers
caffeine can make urinary or pain symptoms due to prostatitis worse and as because caffeine is a diuretic, avoiding caffeine can make a big difference in the urinary health
women have a substantially higher risk of developing lifetime anxiety disorders compared with men
patients who skip maintenance treatment are at high risk of a relapse of symptoms or having minor mood changes turn into full-blown mania or depression
many medications prescribed for fibromyalgia work to turn down "pain volume" in the central nervous system (CNS) and can also help reduce fatigue, improve mood, promote sleep and ease other problems associated with fibromyalgia, including irritable bowel and restless legs syndromes
dust mites live in furniture, carpets, and bedding which thrive at humidity levels of 70 to 80 percent and their dead bodies and waste can also set off asthma attacks.
the risk of narcolepsy is 5.4 times higher in patients with a physician-diagnosed streptococcal infection.
it helps people learn to change their thoughts and feelings by first changing their behavior
anxiety disorders may be linked to faulty circuits in the brain that control fear and emotions.
it will help strengthen the muscles surrounding your sciatic nerve, by participating in targeted exercises and stretches. Physical therapy helps treat and alleviate the physical symptoms of stiffness, inflammation, and soreness associated with nerve pain.
plasma could have certain proteins that are attacking their own body and when you take out the plasma, you get rid of those proteins, and symptoms may get better
whites have the highest risk of Crohn's desease, especially people of Eastern European Jewish descent
some people with POTS can develop hypotension (a drop in blood pressure) with prolonged standing (more than three minutes upright)and Others can develop an increase in blood pressure (hypertension) when they stand
alcohol changes levels of serotonin and other neurotransmitters in the brain, which can worsen anxiety.
people living with migraine are between 2 and 8 times more likely to experience sleep disorders, compared with the general public. This includes difficulty falling or staying asleep, early morning awakenings and non-refreshing sleep.
eating a certain diet affects biological mechanisms, like oxidative stress and inflammation, that underlie Alzheimer's.
social distancing ensures secure physical distance between people (of at least one metre), and reduce contact with infested people.
acupuncture can help relieve the symptoms of prostate disorders by stimulation at acupoints which promotes the release of naturally occurring opioid-like chemicals (enkephalins, endorphins, and dynorphins) with pain-killing properties
cancer increased mortality among COVID-19 patients
social support has been found to be protective against the development of PTSD and important in the related treatment outcome in people with PTSD, treatments for PTSD and associated comorbidities should incorporate a social support building component to improve symptoms and potentially reduce future relapse.
a healthy diet plan helps you control your blood sugar, manage your weight and control heart disease risk factors, such as high blood pressure and high blood fats.
anxiety is a person's specific reaction to stress. Anxiety is typically characterized by a "persistent feeling of apprehension or dread" in situations that are not actually threatening and persists after the stressful situation has passed.
exercise can help ease pain, maintain flexibility and improve your posture
it is often caused by operation at the upper abdomen, especially by gastric or pancreatic resection
to going to bed and wake up at the same time every day and eating a healthy foods and staying hydrated help preventing or relieving headache
exposure to certain environmental toxins, such as pesticides, heavy metals and other substances can affect the brain cells that produce dopamine may increase the risk of Parkinson's disease.
Diabetes can result in nerve damage so that for some people, the nerves that control sweat glands are always "switched on." This can result in hyperhidrosis.
poor hygiene like washing your feet infrequently or not changing socks often can allow bacteria to thrive. Wearing fresh socks every day can help to stop you having smelly sweaty feet.
psychotherapy can help adjust to a crisis or other current difficulty, identify issues that contribute to the depression and change behaviors that make it worse, identify negative beliefs and behaviors and replace them with healthy and positive ones, find better ways to cope and solve problems and develop positive interactions with others and regain a sense of satisfaction and control in your life and help ease depression symptoms, such as hopelessness and anger
of chemical imbalances in the brain.
covering your ankles and wrists with long pants and shirts prevents the Lyme Disease causing ticks from biting you.
alcohol can worsen symptoms for POTS patients
eating smaller and more frequent meals each day instead of a few large meals promotes digestion and can aid in preventing heartburn.
activity that exercises the brain may build brain reserve that helps to compensate for the damage caused by Alzheimer's or other diseases. Because the brain is able to compensate and keep functioning well, the onset of dementia may be delayed.
exercise is an important way to slow the disease and control its symptoms and helps to maintain the ability to do everyday activities, and it protects the brain cells
regular exercise may help ease depression and anxiety by releasing feel good endorphins, natural cannabis like brain chemicals (endogenous cannabinoids) and other natural brain chemicals that can enhance the sense of well being
the repellent like DEET keeps the Lyme Disease causing ticks away.
research has shown that CFS is linked with exposure to Epstein–Barr virus, Coxsackie B, Human Herpes virus 6 and 7, and Coxiella burnetii
people who have a gene called HLA-B27 are at a greatly increased risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis.
some medications like Aspirin, ibuprofen, Beta-blockers, which are usually used for heart conditions, high blood pressure and migraines can trigger asthma
Multiple Sclerosis has a strong racial and ethnic component and disproportionately affects whites of European background
poor sleep can trigger mania, psychosis or paranoia, or make existing symptoms worse.
in islet auto transplantation, doctors remove a patient's pancreas, remove the islets from the pancreas, and transplant the islets into the patient's liver to give the body enough healthy islets that make insulin
the genes you inherit from your parents can contribute to your risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.
stress increases cortisol in the body which limits testosterone for the sex drive.
one inevitable consequence of thyroidectomy includes hypothyroidism
Hypothyroidism is a very common condition and affects more women than men
consistent and correct use of latex condoms reduces the risk of genital herpes, syphilis, and chancroid only when the infected area or site of potential exposure is protected.
psychotherapy can help you uncover the underlying causes of your worries and fears, learn how to relax, and develop healthier coping mechanisms and problem-solving skills to overcome anxiety.
PTSD can develop after a very stressful event
eating an overall healthy diet rich in dark, leafy greens, nuts and seeds, seafood, meat, beans, and vitamin C rich fruits and vegetables can help you get the iron you need to manage anemia
caffeine and stress can both elevate cortisol levels and high amounts of caffeine can lead to the negative health effects associated with prolonged elevated levels of cortisol (as in chronic stress)
drinking alcohol can gradually irritate and erode your stomach lining and exposes your stomach tissues underneath to digestive acids. Through abstinence from alcohol use, a person's digestive system can make a complete recovery and help prevent gastroparesis.
alcohol is a depressant that slow the signals between the brain and body, resulting in ED
respiratory disorders, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, Ddrug misuse or withdrawal and ithdrawal from alcohol could cause anxiety
not getting enough physical activity can raise a person's risk of developing type 2 diabetes. If you have diabetes, being active makes your body more sensitive to insulin (the hormone that allows cells in your body to use blood sugar for energy), which helps manage your diabetes.
there are many conditions which can lead to the brain disorder of epilepsy such as family genetics, brain damage before birth, birth difficulties, childhood seizures, developmental disorders, head injuries, brain damage and brain infections.
there are many ways the patient can gain support of others throughout their journey with ADHD
researches revealed that Individuals who have a family history of diabetes can have two to six times the risk of type 2 diabetes compared with individuals with no family history of the disease
good sleep improves your brain performance, mood, and health. Consistent sleep schedule can significantly impact your quality of sleep and can help prevent insomnia.
losing weight does help to increase testosterone production, which can resolve erectile dysfunction or impotence. losing weight can help to restore normal hormone levels, improve or reverse vascular disease, and even boost a person's mood to achieve better erections.
smoking can tighten and damage blood vessels, which can restrict blood flow to the brain causing dementia.
sticking to a regular sleep schedule can help you better manage your narcolepsy symptoms
migrane first often occurs during adolescence, tend to peak during your 30s and gradually become less severe and less frequent in the following decades
lemons and lemon juice might be a useful remedy to help prevent gout in people with high uric acid levels
many people have their first episode of gout between the ages of 30 and 50, and the risk of gout continues to increase with age
severe traumatic brain injuries were associated with increased odds of ADHD
prolonged stress can cause chronic fatigue and disruptions in sleep, which may result in decreased energy levels. People who experience severe or ongoing stress for any reason can develop psychological trauma.
with a unhealthy diet your pancreas will wear out and stop producing enough insulin to keep your blood sugars under control.
Paget Schroetter causes thrombosis in the subclavian veins making excessive exercise both painful and a high risk for clots.
After a few hours of sleep, alcohol can cause you to wake up and have a difficult time going back to sleep
regular bathing helps keep the number of bacteria on your skin in check and reducing other complications due to hyperhidrosis
it becomes necessary in extreme cases where the disorder is causing someone to be an immediate threat to themselves or others and may also be used when medications need monitoring or adjustment.
engage in activity can help regulate their sleep and prevent restlessness and sleeplessness in the evening. It can also help maintain a positive mood and lower the risk of them developing depression
sleeping problems lead to alcohol and drug use in order to cope with insomnia or a person with a drug addiction leads to disrupting the brain's quality of sleep causing insomnia.
one can reduce the risk of cognitive rundown and delay the onset of AD if maintains strong social connections
research has also shown that caffeine interferes with circadian melatonin rhythms4, delaying the onset of sleep
good sleep habits like go to bed at the same time each night and get up at the same time each morning, making sure the bedroom is quiet, dark, relaxing, and at a comfortable temperature and avoiding large meals, caffeine, and alcohol before bedtime etc help those who live with insomnia
of exposure to certain infections, toxins, and pollutants, injury to affected joints, changes in the bacteria in your colon and bowel inflammation.
people with certain autoimmune conditions such as Sjogren's syndrome and celiac disease can be at higher risk of POTS
if the body doesn't feel rested and could kick-start that cortisol surge, which could lead to risk for more acne
caffeine stimulates your "fight or flight" response, and research has shown that this can make anxiety worse and can even trigger an anxiety attack.
after exposure to sun the epidermis [the top layer of skin] starts to dry and thicken and your body responds by producing even more oil to compensate for what was lost – and that can lead to more breakouts
excess body fat increases inflammation which might contribute to the build-up of damaging proteins in the brain
after you've been in the sun, the epidermis starts to dry and thicken causing the skin to create more oil for breakouts.
cognitive stimulation therapy aimed at those with mild to moderate dementia involves taking part in group activities and exercises designed to help improve memory, problem-solving skills and language ability
some women develop hypothyroidism during or after pregnancy (postpartum hypothyroidism), often because they produce antibodies to their own thyroid gland. Hypothyroidism increases the risk of miscarriage, premature delivery and preeclampsia, a condition that causes a significant rise in a woman's blood pressure during the last three months of pregnancy. It can also seriously affect the developing fetus.
stress is a common trigger for anxiety and it's important to catch anxiety symptoms early to prevent development of an anxiety disorder
excessive amounts of sudden and prolonged stress may cause changes in the brain and body chemistry. Stress increases the risk of acne by drying out the skin, ramping up oil production and increasing levels of stress hormones which ages the skin.
therapy can help build coping skills to deal with chronic illness, address limitations at work or school, and improve family dynamics. It can also be helpful for managing depression
the stomach, abdomen walls, pelvic floor, and lower back are all common areas of endometrial pain, and heat therapy is effective at easing this pain, it relaxes the tense muscles and eases cramps
Individuals with substance abuse are at risk for contamination due to multiple factors
endometriosis is a condition that causes the tissue that normally lines the inside of the uterus to grow outside of the uterus, resulting in period pain and a shorter amount of time in between cycles. In many cases, endometriosis can also cause excessive menstrual bleeding.
studies revealed that SSRIs, tricyclic antidepressants, and monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are all equally effective antidepressant treatments for dysthymia Dysthymia has a medication treatment because
social interaction rescues Alzheimer patients' memory deficit by increasing BDNF expression. BDNF produces many beneficial effects on brain functions
stress weakens your body leaving you more vulnerable to the Fibromyalgia symptoms of chronic pain, fatigue, and depression.
some people with gastroparesis develop masses in their stomach caused by undigested food. These masses known as bezoars can cause a blockage in the small intestines. If not promptly treated, blockages can cause a deadly infection.
a planned day allows you to spend less time trying to figure out what to do, and more time on activities that provide meaning and enjoyment.
familiarity with environment is important for a person with dementia. The home environment should help them know where they are and help them find where they want to go
it helps people with dementia to keep a sense of self, sustain relationships and maintain their quality of life
excessively sweaty feet could affect your foot health. When your feet sweat, your skin gets wet. Wearing socks and shoes traps this moisture against your skin, creating a welcoming environment for bacterial growth.
any death of a loved one can be emotionally devastating. Loss of a close relationship through death is a stressful life event that is associated with the development of psychiatric disorders like depression.
htreatments stop the ovaries from producing hormones, including estrogen, and usually prevent ovulation, slowing down the growth and local activity of both the endometrium and the endometrial lesions
getting a good night's sleep can improve the mental well being and helps to better manage the anxiety
washing your face twice daily to remove impurities, dead skin cells, and extra oil from your skin's surface stops acne..
psychotherapy is a vital part of bipolar disorder treatment and can be provided in individual, family or group settings.
most people with alzheimer's who take one of medications like Donepezil, Galantamine and Rivastigmine get some benefit from it, including less anxiety, improved motivation, and better concentration and memory and some are able to continue with their regular activities.
exercise helps IBS symptoms by minimizing stress, improving bowel function, and reducing bloating.
certain medications like NSAIDs and dietary supplements can irritate the lining of your esophagus, causing heartburn pain
PTSD can originate from a variety of forms of abuse, ranging from physical abuse to sexual abuse to emotional abuse
it is prevalent among men and its presence is often an indicator of systemic disease. Male sexual arousal is a complex process that involves the brain, hormones, emotions, nerves, muscles and blood vessels. Erectile dysfunction can result from a problem with any of these.
there's no cure for chronic fatigue syndrome, but there are over-the-counter and prescription medications that could ease the symptoms
an effort to reduce unpleasant feelings or in an act of recklessness which can cause rewiring of parts of the brain affecting mood and behavior and increase the chance of developing bipolar.
it can effectively relieve spasms and has modest effects in improving performance
If your estrogen level is high, your endometrium will be thicker, which can cause heavy bleeding.
majority of patients with POTS are women (80-85%) of child-bearing age (13-50 years)
summer is reported as the time of highest risk for Lyme disease
alcohol can trigger migraine attack
surgery reconstructs the arteries within the penis which increases the blood flow to the penis and the man is able to achieve or maintain an erection
people having other mental health problems, such as anxiety or depression are likely to develop PTSD
tight clothing creates pressure on your stomach that can aggravate acid reflux and It pushes stomach juices into your esophagus, resulting in the symptoms of acid reflux
they need to be aware of their illness; adherence to treatment; early detection of prodromal symptoms and recurrences; and lifestyle regularity to live their life.
ample sleep and rest supports the immune system, which reduces the risk of infection and can improve outcomes for people fighting a virus
most often Crohn's disease affects people ages 15 to 35.
bipolar disorder is widely believed to be the result of chemical imbalances in the brain.
it benefits both the person with dementia and care giver as activities of the day go smoother, with less frustration
exercising helps control gout by lowering uric acid levels to prevent gout attacks.
smoking reduces the function of the immune system throughout the whole body, making you more susceptible to infections. Infections can trigger a worsening of your MultipleSclerosis symptoms.
of some gene mutations that can heighten an individual's risk associated with Parkinson's.
hypothyroidism occurs primarily in women older than 50
healthy relationships with empathy, communication, and emotional awareness will be supportive to someone with bipolar disorder and helps them manage their symptoms
migraine is a predominantly female disorder. Moreover, menarche, menstruation, pregnancy, and menopause as use of oral contraceptives and of hormone replacement treatment (HRT) may influence migraine occurrence.
IBS can develop after a severe bout of diarrhea (gastroenteritis) caused by bacteria or a virus
most prostatitis infections are bacterial and a quick round of antibiotics cures it. Giving the bacteria a chance to linger strengthens the infection.
over time movement and stress cause spinal disks and bones to weaken, resulting in nerve compression and an increased risk of sciatica pain in the elderly.
working out can cause excessive sweating, as well as a buildup of oil, dirt and bacteria on your skin. Since germs thrive at the gym, it's important to shower after work out to prevent clogged pores and the spread of harmful bacteria.
for a number of healthy women, pregnancy can trigger a new-onset POTS, and for substantial proportion of women with pre-existing POTS, pregnancy will be an exacerbating factor
disorders of sweat glands even include the thyroid gland malfunctioning which leads to hyperhidrosis
the mood-boosting effect of exercise is helps with depression and anxiety sometimes occur along with endometriosis
natural fabrics are generally more comfortable than other kinds and also act as sweat barriers. Cotton is the best fabric to protect against sweat because it helps keep your body cool
long-term exposure to air pollutants was associated with higher beta amyloid levels in the blood showing a possible biological connection between air quality and physical brain changes that define Alzheimer's disease.
ticks that carry Lyme disease are more apt to live in wet, green, brushy, or wooded areas
about 30 to 40 percent of epilepsy is caused by genetic predisposition
head injuries with loss of consciousness was an causes the development of idiopathic dystonia
regular exercise combats fatigue and increases energy, makes joints more flexible, improves sleep and mood and frees people with fibromyalgia to live a fuller life.
it is a highly contagious disease that is spread through droplets from the infected so it's best to stay home.
exposure to childhood trauma was associated with a 6-fold increased risk of CFS
OCD is most common in older teens or young adults
staying hydrated helps prevent a migraine attack
heavy smokers presented ED severe 43% about 2.5 times more than light smokers (17%)
the abnormal tissue is surgically removed via a laparoscopic procedure helps clear blockages of the fallopian tubes, which is common among women with severe endometriosis and one of the most common causes of infertility.
female gender has been recognized as a significant factor for insomnia
excessive alcohol consumption over a lengthy time period can lead to brain damage, and may increase the risk of developing dementia
keeping the penis and the area around it clean prevents bacterial infection.
treatment depends on the cause there are a variety of medications used to treat anemia, such as iron supplements, vitamin C, vitamin B-12, synthetic hormone folic acid supplements.
it spreads through sexual contact and direct skin-to-skin contact, the most common route of transmission being through penetrative sex . The more sexual partners you have, the more likely you are to contract a genital HPV infection.
mental health problems cause greater impairment in functional status, lower sexual self-efficacy, greater depression and anxiety at the last intercourse.
certain medications may help with symptoms or co-occurring problems such as depression, impulsiveness, aggression or anxiety.
a gene mutation is associated with low levels of hypocretin. It's believed that this hereditary deficiency, along with an immune system that attacks healthy cells (i.e an autoimmune issue), contributes to narcolepsy.
poor sleep habits include an irregular bedtime schedule, naps, stimulating activities before bed, an uncomfortable sleep environment, and using your bed for work, eating or watching TV. Computers, TVs, video games, smartphones or other screens just before bed can interfere with your sleep cycle.
heavy alcohol consumption can lead to brain damage. Alcohol consumption damages short- and long-term memory and affect brain structure that can lead to Alzheimer's disease.
high potency antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol, fluphenazine, and pimozide cause dystonia
being born early can injure the brain and disrupt the normal sequence of brain development processes. Event during early brain development associated with being born early contributes to the development of ADHD symptoms.
surgery can increase the production of certain bile acids that make cells more sensitive to insulin, or increase the uptake of glucose by the gut cells themselves, thereby lowering blood glucose levels.
studies showed that psychological stress and depression were main risk factors for acne
researches show that men who drank at least seven drinks per week between ages 15 to 49 years had a more than threefold greater likelihood for developing high-grade prostate cancer than men who did not drink
while you can't prevent Dysthymia and other depression disorders, early treatment does promote remission, prevent relapse, and reduce the emotional and financial burden of the disease
physical therapy and endurance training can help recondition the body and decrease symptoms in people with POTS.
acne develops when hormonal changes increase the amount of oil your skin produces. This oil interacts with bacteria on the pores of your skin where hair grows (hair follicles) and results in acne. Hormonal acne may be caused by influxes of hormones from menstruation, increased androgen levels and menopause.
it arise through the experience of one or many physical and/or emotional traumatic events, which create stress and distress for individuals. Symptoms often begin after an event, such as physical trauma, surgery, infection or significant psychological stress.
spicy foods, hot peppers, and chili can all bother your bladder and make prostatitis symptoms worse. Drinks like tea, coffee, and soda can inflame your urinary tract and bladder
infections like meningitis and encephalitis caused by viral, bacterial, and fungal infections of the brain have been associated with dystonia
many yoga poses could potentially benefit and meditation may provide an effective complementary treatment approach for fibromyalgia patients
genetics do seem to play some role in the condition. The risk of narcolepsy is 20 to 40 times higher if you have a family member who has narcolepsy. You are at an increased risk of having the condition if a family member has type 1 narcolepsy.
It can be caused by a traumatic injury to the prostate
alcohol disrupts breathing during sleep by relaxing throat muscles. Alcohol can also reduce the brain's ability to wake and detect a lack of oxygen in the body, and leads to longer and more frequent breathing pauses
a job that requires you to twist your back, carry heavy loads or drive a motor vehicle for long periods might play a role in sciatica. Even sitting in your office chair the whole day can cause sciatica pain.
alcohol-based hand sanitizers are effective at inactivating enveloped viruses like covid19.
while Cystic Fibrosis cannot be prevent genetic testing can show if the parents are a carrier to be aware for future treatment if they decide to have children.
Narcolepsy is one of the negative outcomes related to environmental neurotoxin exposure
sensory tricks like touching certain parts of your body may cause spasms to stop temporarily or reduce.
bowel inflammation is one factor increasing your risk of developing ankylosing spondylitis
when the human papillomavirus (HPV) enters a cut in the skin, it causes a skin infection that forms warts. Warts are very contagious. The virus can spread from person to person or from different parts of the body through direct contact with a wart.
drugs that affect hormone levels can cause true acne. Several hormonal medications may cause or aggravate acne.
Insulin helps blood sugar enter the body's cells so it can be used for energy and also also signals the liver to store blood sugar for later use
depletes the production of substances called prostaglandins, which normally protect the stomach from the effects of acid.
HPV is passed from one person to another during contact with an infected part of the body
severe inflammation in the colon can lead to toxic megacolon. Surgery works to help conserve as much bowel as possible, alleviate serious complications or disrupting side effects, and improve the overall quality of life for those affected.
negative or stressful life events were associated with subsequent mood swings. Experiencing a lot of emotional distress can cause bipolar disorder to develop. This could be because trauma and distress can have a big effect on your ability to manage your emotions.
many people with epilepsy are at a high risk of seizures after drinking three or more alcoholic beverages
some women stop using asthma-controlling drugs when they realize they are pregnant, increasing their risk for attacks.
drinking too much alcohol can lead to anemia
stretching helps strengthen your muscles and improve the durability of your joints. Stretching makes your muscles stronger and more flexible.
commonly used pesticides may alter the development of the brain's dopamine system responsible for emotional expression and cognitive function and increase the risk of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children
IBS has been reported be a more common disease in women, with a female-to-male ratio of 2–2.5:1
dehydration causes the brain to temporarily contract from fluid loss. This causes the brain to pull away from the skull, causing pain and resulting in a dehydration headache
Lyme disease is an infectious disease caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi. B. burgdorferi is transmitted to humans by a bite from an infected tick
the longer one waits to treat, the more at risk a person is for developing depression and other complications
familial clustering of PCOS has been consistently reported
abuse can aggravate symptoms of depression
it helps people with MS regain and maintain strength, flexibility, and general fitness, and to live active, productive lives
stress can cause flare ups and relapse by disturbing intestine function and motility.
covid19 is a contagious disease spread by droplets so by staying home with minimal contacts you don't spread your droplets to others.
a number of different medications can be tried to treat dystonia, such as drugs that affect the specific neurotransmitters acetylcholine, GABA, and dopamine
yoga and meditation reducing stress and fatigue is often referenced as one of the successful self-managed interventions in dystonia patients.
nasal passage abnormality, such as a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps or tumors affects sinuses
some people who have migraines appear to be more sensitive to changes in the weather. Weather changes may cause imbalances in brain chemicals, including serotonin, which can prompt a migraine.
repetitive, prolonged or vigorous upper extremity movements especially, hyperabduction or external rotation of the shoulder joint causes the development of Paget-Schroetter
a low-fiber with low-residue diet can help lessen abdominal pain, cramping, and diarrhea
if you have gastroparesis, your stomach doesn't empty as fast as it should. Eating small meals more often, eating healthy food, tossing food in a blender or food processor with water, juice, milk, or broth helps reduce symptoms
COVID-19 targets the lungs and you're more likely to develop severe symptoms if you already have various lung problems
it helps in airway clearance; exercise and movement; inhaled treatments; sinus management; or managing or treating joint, back and continence problems
several dietary triggers for migraine have already been identified
individuals struggling with anxiety are at a significant risk of developing an addiction to drugs or alcohol due to the symptoms of the mental illness.
cleaning with Alcohol, soap or detergent reduces the amount of viruses on surfaces and decreases risk of infection from surfaces
diet is an important factor influencing the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease
eating and sleeping at the same time allows you to notice if a migraine is triggered by foods or lack of sleep.
injectable treatments including Interferon beta medications are among the most commonly prescribed medications to treat MS which are injected under the skin or into muscle and can reduce the frequency and severity of relapses
gout is more common in men than women, with only 5.1% of the US gout population being female
the risk of prostate cancer increases with age, especially after age 50. Around 60% of prostate cancers are diagnosed in people who are 65 or older
drugs like antibiotics, antidepressants and medicines that contain sorbitol may trigger symptoms
exercise can help maintain bone mass, improve balance, reduce stress, and increase strength
sleep deprivation can exacerbate the widespread feelings of pain and tenderness brought on by fibromyalgia.
medication, like birth control pills, anti-androgens, and metformin helps to manage polycystic ovary syndrome
by stabilizing the daily schedule, you reduce some of the uncertainty that causes the pendulum swings in your mood
the risk of gout is higher in people with a family history.
fetal and childhood development are defenseless against the toxins in foods and household products that disrupt brain development which leave a lasting impact on brain health.
having obesity may triple the risk of hospitalization due to a COVID-19 infection as obesity is linked to impaired immune function
the more sexual partners, the more possible exposure you have to HPV
patients may develop POTS after a viral illness, serious infections, medical illness, pregnancy and trauma such as head injury. The condition may develop as aftermath of a significant illness (especially associated with hospitalization and prolonged immobilization).
both asthma and sinusitis may be triggered by inflammation to an allergen or irritant. In addition, postnasal drip caused by sinusitis may trigger coughing arising from the throat which can aggravate asthma symptoms.
women are two to three times more likely than men to have migraines
when sitting, the muscles that support the alignment of your pelvis and lower back can become tighter and compress on the sciatic nerve. Good posture techniques while you're sitting, standing, lifting objects and sleeping helps relieve pressure on your lower back that can help prevent sciatica.
PPIs for treatment of GERD work by blocking the mechanism that produces stomach acid, theryby lowering the acidity of the digestive fluids involved in reflux, and thus reduces reflux symptoms
the risk of HT increases with increasing radiation dose
exercise can improve alertness, focus and energy levels which reduce narcolepsy symptoms
extra body weight, especially in the mid-section, increases stress on the spine, pelvis and lower back which contributes to the compression of the sciatic nerve leading to sciatica.
low blood levels of vitamin D are associated with an increased number of brain lesions and signs of a more active disease state in people with multiple sclerosis.
fried and fatty foods can cause the LES (Lower Esophageal Sphincter) to relax, allowing more stomach acid to back up into the esophagus. Increased fiber intake, specifically in the form of fruits and vegetables, can help prevent GERD.
women with PCOS are often insulin resistant
a person with cancer may sweat more than usual because of the cancer or the treatment. Some treatment drugs can cause sweating and hot flashes.
the prevalence of both type 2 diabetes and prediabetes increases with advancing age. The burden of the disease is very high in older age groups because you tend to exercise less, lose muscle mass and gain weight as you age.
it tends to run in families. If your parents or siblings have ankylosing spondylitis, it's estimated that you're 10 to 20 times more likely to have ankylosing spondylitis than someone with no family history.
excess weight increases abdominal pressure, making stomach acid leakage or backflow more likely.
women develop post-traumatic stress disorder more often than men do
most of the dystonias for which genes have been identified are dominantly inherited
women who had experienced domestic abuse were almost twice as likely to develop fibromyalgia
using precise, repetitive, task-specific hand movements at workplaces, such as artists, musicians and engineers, increases impaired hand use.
regular house cleaning helps to clear dust in home which has been knowing to be the leading aggravator for asthma allergies
people with acne have skin cells that don't shed away properly. They are more sensitive to irritation caused by Propionibacteria acnes , an acne-causing bacteria. It's important to wash areas to remove impurities, dead skin cells, and extra oil from your skin's surface.
sleep problems contribute significantly to the diminished quality of life
deep brain stimulation is thought to alleviate OCD symptoms by modulating underlying disturbances in normal cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuitry
having a family member with ADHD makes you more likely to also have the disorder. Children who have ADHD typically have a parent, sibling, or other close relative with ADHD.
obesity increases intra-abdominal pressure, which raises intravesical pressure, in turn worsening or causing BPH symptoms such as hesitancy, poor urine stream and nocturia making prostatitis worse.
sleep deprivation can worsen the widespread feelings of pain and tenderness brought on by fibromyalgia.
sleeps restores the brain's prefrontal mechanism that regulates our emotions, lowering emotional and physiological reactivity and preventing anxiety spirals.
over the counter pain relievers such as acetaminophen, aspirin, or NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen, ketoprofen, or naproxen and muscle relaxants relieve symptoms
GERD is a chronic backup of stomach acid or contents into your esophagus, the tube that food goes down when you eat. During the fundoplication surgery, the surgeon uses the upper part of the stomach to reinforce and tighten the lower esophagus and strengthen the sphincter, which is the bundle of muscles that helps prevent the contents of the stomach from moving back up the esophagus, thus the symptoms are reduced, and quality of life is improved.
smokers are more likely to develop severe symptoms or die from COVID-19
infections of herpes viruses, Japanese encephalitis virus, Nipah virus, HIV, influenza viruses, parainfluenza virus, rotavirus, adenovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, cytomegalovirus and nonpolio picornavirus could cause development of seizures and epilepsy
medications like keratolytic agents works by thinning the skin around and on the affected area, allowing for new, healthy skin to grow and Immune response modifiers works by boosting the immune system and its ability to fight off the infection, especially in the areas where the topical treatment is applied.
bright light and other visual stimuli can trigger migraine attacks
pregnancy is a condition that predisposes to GERD due to hormonal-related alterations of the lower esophageal sphincter and gastrointestinal motility.
medication reduce the amount of damage and scarring to the myelin sheath (a layer surrounding your nerves), which is associated with MS relapses and potentially reduce risk of brain atrophy and disability accumulation.
when you're stressed, your brain releases chemicals that set off your "fight or flight" response
sometimes abdominal surgery like a caesarean delivery (commonly known as a C-section) or hysterectomy can misplace endometrial tissue. If this misplaced tissue isn't destroyed by your immune system, it can lead to endometriosis.
exercises turns on the DJ-1 gene which prevents abnormal protein accumulation in brain.
OCD seem to intensify in women when they're pregnant, due to the dramatic increase of progesterone and other hormones. Women who develop OCD around the time of pregnancy may be particularly likely to have symptoms related to fear of "contamination", germs and dirt.
medical conditions like chronic pain, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), overactive thyroid, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are linked with insomnia
being exposed to harmful toxins are suggested to play a role in the development of schizophrenia
prevalence of Herpes increased linearly with age
some research suggests that being exposed to certain infections (such as Epstein-Barr virus) can trigger MultipleSclerosis later in life. These viruses can affect the immune system, leading to dysfunction, increased levels of inflammation, and myelin degradation.
some types of dementia there may be a strong genetic link
marijuana, cocaine, and other recreational drugs can cause ED by damaging blood vessels
high levels of caffeine can not only increase anxiety and nervousness, but also decrease the production of the feel-good chemical serotonin in the body, causing a depressed mood.
a person may be more at risk of fibromyalgia following a traumatic injury
allergies inflame mucous membranes, clog the sinuses, cause pressure and block airflow allowing bacteria to grow resulting in sinusitis.
a counselor can help guide a couple in agreeing on a treatment or help them improve their sexual communication and lovemaking skills
long or frequent naps might interfere with nighttime sleep
smoking prompts the stomach to produce more acid, increasing the risk of gastric juices being refluxed into the esophagus. Smoking also seems to make stomach acid more intense and damaging by promoting the transfer of bile salts from the intestines into the stomach.
POTS often starts after experiencing a physical trauma, like a concussion
stress can lead to flare-ups and relapse and controlling stress is one way for you to minimize the effect Crohn's has on one's life
individuals with CFS may lose vitality over time due to worse physical functioning as it becomes more challenging for them to do functional tasks as the illness progresses.
some medical conditions like untreated high blood pressure and chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and heart and kidney diseases increase the risk of gout
maintaining physical fitness can help keep blood flowing normally to brain tissue, which can reduce the risk of damage or deterioration.
smoking can increase vascular endothelial inflammation, causing exacerbation of irritable bowel syndrome
regular exercise maintains joint motion and function, ease pain, improve posture, tackle muscle imbalances, make it easier to breathe and enhance the overall quality of life
stressful life events or trauma such as the death or illness of a loved one, divorce, or a job loss also may lead to insomnia
nicotine from cigarettes causes the relaxing the lower esophageal sphincter which is a main problem with GERD.
concern over bowel movements or symptoms of IBS may lead patients to seek isolation and avoid social activities. These changes in behavior may cause psychological symptoms such as loneliness and helplessness, that contribute to feelings of depression.
it helps people with BPD better manage their emotions, reduce impulsiveness, and improve their relationships, among other things.
If someone in your family has endometriosis, your risk for developing it is 7 to 10 times higher than those with no family history of the condition
a high caffeine intake may increase estrogen levels in the body. By cutting down on caffeine, one can experience less endometriosis pain, conciliate the digestive symptoms, and can lower the anxiety that comes with endometriosis.
when people experience back pain, they often change their posture to ease the pain. Over time, postural changes can cause stiffness and weakness in muscles and joints and lead to more pain especially Ankylosing Spondylitis patients so it's important to sit correctly.
people with a first-degree relative who had adult acne, such as a parent or sibling, were shown to be more likely to have it themselves
drugs and alcohol often make the symptoms of bipolar disorder worse
oxidative stress and insulin resistance leading to an increased incidence of vascular type dementia
lifting heavy objects with your legs and not your back keeps your discs from bulging causing sciatica.
smoking increases the risk of developing Crohn's disease and worsens its course, increasing the need for steroids, immunosuppressants and re-operations
good posture creates a normal balance, relieving tension in the body causing sciatica.
dietary fiber has the ability to stabilize the gastrocolic reflex and intestinal muscles, which form the part of the digestive tract responsible for moving food through the system.
HIV disproportionately impacts ethnic groups with increased risk of prostate cancer
men who have had prostatitis once are more likely to get it again
diets high in saturated and trans fats have been shown to increase cognitive decline and the risk of developing dementia
anti-thyroid drugs like methimazole and propylthioracil stop your thyroid from making hormones
medications like salt tablets, fludrocortisone, pyridostigmine, midodrine, and/or a beta blocker may help control POTS symptoms.
of actions that involve repetitive or prolonged strenuous activity of the shoulders and arms particularly in the overhead position which includes overhead lifting or throwing.
female patients with T2DM(type 2 diabetes mellitus) reported more dyspeptic symptoms that may suggest gastroparesis. The slower gastric motility in females may be attributable to estrogen levels leading to gastroparesis in diabetic females.
smoking is known to damage the stomach lining causing ulcers and other problems.
Lancet Commission on dementia prevention ranked smoking as third among nine modifiable risk factors for dementia
physical therapy or occupational therapy or both to help ease symptoms and improve function
traumatic or stressful life events, such as the loss of a loved one or financial problems are more likely to cause major depression.
often help people stay awake and alert for 1 to 3 hours
research and experts suggest trauma or stress especially severe childhood trauma, can increase the likelihood of someone developing schizophrenia
postsurgical gout tends to develop within 8 days after surgery
noise is a trigger for both migraines and tension-type headaches
people with a history of substance abuse tend to be more susceptible to PTSD
researchers have found that wounds, including acne, are much slower in healing when a person is under stress and lower healing of acne means that the pimples stay longer and are more susceptible to increasing in severity
plantar warts can develop on your feet from cuts or weak spots on the foot so it's important to keep them covered.
as a person ages, they will also become more physically frail over time. A person is more likely to develop problems with their thinking and memory. The risk rises as you age, especially after age 65.
regular exercising may Keep thinking, reasoning and learning skills sharp for healthy individuals. Improve memory, reasoning, judgment and thinking skills (cognitive function) for people with Alzheimer's disease
higher levels of vitamin D are associated with reduced risk for developing multiple sclerosis
a higher risk of ADHD was found with decreasing maternal age; the younger the mother the higher risk of ADHD
diet and activity changes improve symptoms over time. Taking healthy diet such as whole-grain bread and cereals, beans, fruits, and vegetables can help prevent ibs.
menstruation causes the loss of red blood cells
regular physical activity is thought to ease IBS symptoms by minimizing stress, improving bowel function, and reducing bloating.
fibromyalgia patients have higher prevalence of obesity (40%) and overweight (30%) in multiple studies compared with healthy patients
it runs in families, which suggests a genetic link and it is common for multiple members of one family to have hyperhidrosis
men are more likely to develop ankylosing spondylitis than are women.
tiredness can cause tension headaches
irregular changes in work times can cause disruptions in the sleep-wake cycle of the body's biological clock, which increases the chance of insomnia.
caffeine and alcohol cause an "allergic-like" reaction leading to inflammation of the prostate and the urethra and urinary incontinence.
increasing the amount of fluid in the body, makes it easier for blood to get to the head and helps feel less dizzy
microwave thermolysis for hyperhidrosis uses precise beams of microwave energy to permanently disable sweat glands in the underarms
consuming certain foods including carbohydrate-rich foods, such as bread, bagels and chips may worsen acne
CFS can run in families
people with first-degree relatives with schizophrenia are at an elevated risk of developing the disorder themselves
social interactions improve blood flow in the brain, and to help in the creation of new synapses which prevents dementia.
people who tend to bottle up their anger may be more likely to suffer from chronic headaches
they can impede the frontal, ethmoid or maxillary sinuses
stress can cause migraine, chronic pain creates more stress and so the cycle continues.
when you sit for long periods, it puts pressure on your prostate gland and inflames it over time, so standing up when possible can help prevent prostatitis.
covid19 lives in the mucus of your eyes, nose and mouth and touching your face spreads those droplets to other surfaces.
drugs called tricyclic antidepressants can help prevent migraine attacks by increasing the amount of serotonin
it is more common among women between 15 to 50 years of age, who often experiencing heart rate jumps when standing up before menstrual periods or after pregnancy, major surgery, trauma or a viral illness.
people who live in the areas farther from the equator receive less intense sun and have lower levels of vitamin D, which is a risk factor for developing MS.
avoiding naps during the day creates a sleep debt, which is helpful in falling asleep at night.
herpes is more common among women than among men
being exposed to secondhand smoke can do damage to your respiratory system
low-fiber and high refined-carbohydrate diets are linked to obesity and are another potential contributor to IBS symptoms in obese persons. Diet remains a potential factor linking IBS to obesity.
the way you stand, sit, and walk can affect the path of the sciatic nerve from your lower back to your legs
these medications can relieve inflammation, pain and stiffness
chemical imbalance in your braincauses a sudden surge of electrical impulses sending abnormal motor signals all over your body, which makes it convulsed and shake
relieves symptoms due to obstruction, preventing complications from DVT, and preventing recurrenceit when done with anticoagulation and surgical decompression.
the risk of these disorders progressively increasing with increasing BMI
if the disease has progressed to the point that daily activities are severely impaired, then surgery may be an option, including joint replacement surgery, laminectomy and osteotomy with fusion.
the presence of stress raises cortisol levels, a hormone that stimulates alertness and vigilance, raising heart rate and blood pressure. High cortisol levels at night interfere with the release of melatonin, a hormone that is essential for the regulation of sleep wake cycles
people with cardiovascular diseases are at higher risk of developing serious illness from COVID-19
a common cause for developing asthma is having a severe respiratory infection as a child
studies found that approximately 40 percent of people over age 65 who were diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment developed dementia within three years
daily routines provide a framework on which the life and processes can run more smoothly
planning for the future after a diagnosis of dementia enables people to play a key role in making important decisions on their care needs and financial and legal affairs. Discussing and planning for the future will help prevent difficult and often stressful situations arising later.
psychotherapy provide emotional support and assist in helping these individuals develop time management, organizational skills, problem solving ability and anger management
Vitamin B6 has been proven to improve brain function, nerve function and red cell production. Vitamin B12 and Folic Acid can help lower the levels of an amino acid in the blood that is often linked to dementia.
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen helps releave pain and taking hormone birth control can stop the heavy menstrual bleeding that generally accompanies endometriosis. Progestin only contraceptives can cut down on pain, as most women don't have a period while taking these medicines, or at least have fewer periods
the highest prevalence of HPV occurs among adolescents and young adults between the ages of 15 and 25
its focus is on the meaning of trauma-related symptoms and behaviors and on the meaning of catastrophic life events to the person as a whole and the consequences of catastrophe can be utilized by the survivor to identify and help master future danger situations and to try to make whole again the fabric of life
excessive sweating and heart conditions are often linked, as sweating without physical exertion is often an indicator of stress on the body. Excessive sweating is due to an underlying medical condition such as a heart attack.
antibiotics can reduce the amount of drainage from fistulas and abscesses. Medication help reduce harmful intestinal bacteria that may play a role in activating the intestinal immune system, leading to inflammation in people with Crohn's disease.
socialization increases a hormone that decreases anxiety levels and make us feel more confident in our ability to cope with stressors.
surgery reduce the motor symptoms and tremors of dystonia, as well as the side-effects that can come from some of the medications used to treat the disease.
it helps to determine if you are meeting your glucose targets which helps to reduce the unpleasant symptoms of high and low blood sugar, and avoid long-term diabetes complications.
it indicates that insufficient sleep, disrupted sleep, and sleep disorders affect many aspects of human health including sexual function.
surgery remove endometrial tissue
epidemiological studies have indicated viral infection as one of the environmental risk factors of schizophrenia
people with mental health conditions such as depression and schizophrenia spectrum disorders may be more likely to develop serious COVID-19 symptoms. People may suffer from depression characterized by low mood, tiredness, pessimism, poor sleep, and appetite, feeling helpless, guilty, and hopeless, with a gradual reduction in work output.
CBT assists in the reduction of the vicious cycle by facilitating the development of skills that increase your ability to cope with pain and reduce headache-related psychological distress
inhaling small amounts of stomach acid back up into the esophagus and lungs, slowly produces changes in the immune system that may lead to the development of asthma.
experiencing recent trauma can sometimes trigger a gout attack.
following a balanced diet improves general well-being and boosts your ability to deal with symptoms of the disease.
social support has been found to be protective against the development of PTSD and also helps improve symptoms and potentially reduce future relapse
quitting can help ease the effect of the condition on your spine and protect your heart and lungs. People with AS who stopped smoking had lower levels of disease activity and better function and quality of life.
exercising helps control gout by lowering uric acid levels to prevent gout attacks. Fat in the body carries more uric acid than muscle and thus, when you reduce body fat, you can reduce uric acid levels in your blood
drugs and alcohol are chemicals and have a significant effect on the chemistry and cell composition of the brain.
traumatic childhood events are associated with an increased risk, and emotional instability at any period in life increases the brain's inability to cope with challenging experiences resulting in chronic fatigue syndrome.
yoga's postures, deep breathing and meditation aspects have been shown to reduce stress and some recent studies have analyzed the impact of yoga on adults with migraine and suggest that it could be very helpful in both treating migraine and fighting the disability associated with migraine
menstruating women between 25 to 40 years old are at a higher risk, with infertility often the first sign of a medical problem leading to an endometriosis diagnosis for 20 percent to 50 percent.
people with obesity, diabetes, asthma or chronic lung disease, sickle cell disease, or who are immunocompromised can also be at increased risk for getting very sick from COVID-19
a traumatic brain injury can trigger venous sinus thrombosis
research indicates that both genetic factors can lead to migraine
caffeine prevents the loss of the neurotransmitter dopamine.
changes in the neurochemical serotonin, as well as in the neurochemicals dopamine and glutamate, are likely present in OCD
Herpes is still a STD and is highly contagious during sexual intercourse.
antiviral medications like remdesivir target specific parts of the virus to stop it from multiplying in the body, helping to prevent severe illness and death and Monoclonal antibodies such as bebtelovimab help the immune system recognize and respond more effectively to the virus.
acupuncture works by relaxing tight muscles, improving blood circulation, regulating the nervous system, and releasing neurotransmitters to reduce pain.
COVID-19 spread when mucus or droplets containing the virus get into one's body through body parts including hands and most important way to prevent the spread of a virus is to wash hands frequently with soap and water.
early detection helps the patient not be stuck in a trauma spiral and generally lessens the severity of symptoms experienced like fear.
psychotherapy can effectively improve the psychological status and sexual function in patients with category III chronic prostatitis.
some medicines like Stimulant medications that promote wakefulness, including over-the-counter medicines that contain caffeine and prescription treatments for ADHD and hypersomnia, may contribute to insomnia
having parents or other family members with the disorder can increase your risk of developing OCD
it can effectively combat blemishes by killing bacteria on and within the skin, regulating the hormone changes that lead to acne breakouts. It also help decrease inflammation of the skin.
studies showed that children aged 8 to 12 years were significantly more likely to receive a diagnosis of ADHD than those aged 3 to 7 years or those aged 13 to 17 years
herpes is easily spread from skin-to-skin contact with someone who has the virus
sleep disturbances are routinely encountered in Alzheimer's disease and affect about 25-40% of patients in the mild-to-moderate stages of the disease
symptoms, such as pain, can often be managed by making changes to your lifestyle. Maintaining a healthy diet, exercising regularly, and getting enough rest are good rules to follow to prevent fibromyalgia.
the brain is covered by the skull, there is only a small amount of room for it to swell. This causes pressure inside the skull to increase, which can lead to additional widespread brain injury.
siblings, children, or parents of people treated for BPD are ten times more likely to have been treated for BPD themselves
the vaccine stimulates the body's immunity to keep a person protected against subsequent infections or diseases. COVID-19 vaccination helps protect you by creating an antibody response without you having to experience sickness, potentially including severe illness.
therapy can help stay active when you have ankylosing spondylitis. For example Physical therapy can help reduce stiffness in the joints and improve your posture and flexibility, which can decrease the pain
of the dysfunction of the inner lining of the blood vessels (endothelium) and smooth muscle. Endothelial dysfunction causes inadequate blood supply to the heart and impaired blood flow to the penis, and aids in the development of atherosclerosis increasing the risk of heart disease.
people with this illness may also have major depression at times resulting in chemical imbalances in the brain. Neurotransmitters are naturally occurring brain chemicals that likely play a role in depression.
exercise stimulates the release of the natural painkiller endorphin, which can aid in reducing the intensity and frequency of migraine headache.
Most individuals with the disease are 65 and older. After age 65, the risk of Alzheimer's doubles every five years
stress is a common trigger of tension-type headaches and migraine and can make the headaches worse.
fatty, fried, sour, spicy food/products, orange and grapefruit juice, tomatoes and tomato preserves, chocolate, coffee/tea, carbonated beverages, alcohol are triggers for GERD symptoms
certain medications and dietary supplements can irritate the lining of your esophagus, causing peptic ulcers, and can also make heartburn and esophageal irritation worse, perhaps by weakening or relaxing the LES (Lower Esophageal Sphincter).
social support may provide a target for resilience-based interventions among children with ADHD in promoting their self concept and well being.
water intake might improve constipation among IBS-C patients while drinking water is a common suggestion for IBS-D patients to prevent diarrhea-induced dehydration.
as your medication wears off, you get a headache again, which leads you to take even more medicine. Eventually, you find yourself getting headaches more and more, and often with greater pain.
of cortisol's impact on androgens, or male hormones. When you are overthinking or taking too much stress, your body releases cortisol or the stress hormones, inadvertently increasing your androgens even more and subsequently worsening your symptoms.
opiates like Hydrocodone/Vicodin, Morphine, Oxycodone/Roxicodone, Fentanyl/Duragesic, Ultra/Tramadol. NSAIDs like Toradol/Ketorolac, Celebrex, Relafen/Nabumetone and other pain medications like Marinol cause hyperhidrosis
medications like eluxadoline which can ease diarrhea by reducing muscle contractions and fluid secretion in the intestine, and increasing muscle tone in the rectum, alosetron which helps to relax the colon and slow the movement of waste through the lower bowel (only for women), rifaximin which decreases bacterial overgrowth and diarrhea and Lubiprostone and Linaclotide which increase fluid secretion in your small intestine to help with the passage of stool are commonly prescribed for IBS
going to bed and waking up at the same time every day, even on the weekends, can help people sleep better.
wearing a mask can help keep pollen from getting into your nose and lungs
people over 65 are more likely to have iron-poor diets and certain chronic diseases. People over age 65 are more at increased risk of anemia.
many people with BPD have something wrong with the neurotransmitters in their brain, particularly serotonin
when you are in the throes of acute sciatica, and you can't find a comfortable position, there may be not much else you can do but rest for a short period of time. Short-term rest can give you a break when standing or sitting causes severe pain.
allergic asthma can be passed through generations in families
caffeinated beverages, carbonated beverages and alcohol may stimulate acid production and increase heartburn
taking fluids eliminate toxins from the body and reduces inflammation in the bladder and prostate. Increasing intake of liquids helps flush bacteria from the bladder.
obesity increases the risk of developing type 2 diabetes by at least 6 times, regardless of genetic predisposition to the disease
weight loss has been shown to improve glycemic control by increasing insulin sensitivity and glucose uptake.
while exercising the muscles of the head, neck, and scalp need more blood to circulate
researchers found that anticholinergic drugs in general were associated with a higher risk of dementia
a variety of different therapies can help reduce the effect that fibromyalgia has on your body and your life. A physical therapist can teach you exercises that will improve your strength, flexibility and stamina and talking with a counselor can help strengthen your belief in your abilities and teach you strategies for dealing with stressful situations
being active makes the body more sensitive to insuline which helps manage your diabetes and physical activity also helps control blood sugar levels and lowers the risk of heart disease and nerve damage
alcohol contains ethanol which is known to trigger migraines.
eating a high-fiber, plant-based diet could help lead to Crohn's disease remission
taking chronic medication like antihistamines to prevent allergy flare ups or steroids to reduce sinus inflammation can lessen symptoms.
alcohol is known to intensify bipolar disorder due to its sedating effects
inherited types of anemia may increase the risk, for example when each parent has 2 copies of the sickle cell gene, they both have sickle cell disease, and each of their children will have the anemic disease.
blacklegged ticks (the ticks that cause Lyme disease) live in moist and humid environments, particularly in and near wooded or grassy areas.
Epilepsy appears to be more common in people with certain developmental disorders, such as autism, Down syndrome, cerebral palsy and intellectual disability, which are linked to abnormal brain function.
exercise may help slow shrinkage in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that deals with memory.
alcohol disrupts breathing during sleep by relaxing the throat muscles. Alcohol can also reduce the brain's ability to wake and detect a lack of oxygen in the body, and this can lead to longer and more frequent breathing pauses.
it lowers glucose production in the liver and improve your body's sensitivity to insulin so that your body uses insulin more effectively. Medication helps to keep your blood sugar level as normal as possible .
surgical procedure avoids the use of stents or balloon plasty with excellent long-term results, leaving the patients unrestricted for physical activities.
long term control medicines control chronic symptoms and prevent asthma attacks, inhaled anti-inflammatory drugs reduce swelling and tightening in the airways and leukotriene modifiers block the effects of leukotrienes, immune system chemicals that cause asthma symptoms
toxins like lead exposure especially causes difficulty with attention and experience behavioral issues that may be associated with ADHD
keeping hydrated causes you to urinate more flushing out the bacteria in the urinary tract that cause infection.
ankylosing spondylitis is known to have a lower prevalence in Blacks and Africans than in other ethnic groups